QUESTION 1
Which compromise involves supplying an application with a calculated result that is too large for it to handle, resulting in a buffer overflow and then an application crash?
A) DoS attack
B) DDoS attack
C) Integer overflow
D) XSS

QUESTION 2
Which one of these is not a disaster recovery life impact scenario?
A) Earthquakes at your warm site
B) Arson at your cold site
C) Theft at your hot site
D) Hurricanes at your hot site
E) Gas leaks at your cold site

QUESTION 3
A system admin is reviewing operations and has found a few questionable practices. Which of these represent a host-related vulnerability?
A) Systems still run default configuarations
B) Not reviewing code for improper input validation handling
C) Not reviewing code for improper error handling
D) Generating keys with weak or deprecated ciphers

QUESTION 4
Gary is trying to determine which target he should go after.  Which one of these qualifies as active reconaissance?
A) Researching the target on the deep web
B) Researching the target on the dark web
C) Running a port scan on the target
D) Obtaining WHOIS info about the target

QUESTION 5
Gary gains access to his target's corporate network and decides to keep digging around until he is stopped.  What type of strategy is he using?
A) Escalation of privilege
B) Using an armored virus 
C) Pivoting
D) Penetration testing
E) Persistence 

**********
ANSWER 1
C) Integer overflow
An integer overflow attack happens when a calculated result is too large for the application to handleand it leads to a buffer overflow and a crash. DoS and DDoS are denial of service attacks that come from outside actors and don't necessarily apply to application level attacks as they're network based attacks. XSS or cross-site scripting occurs when attackers embed malicious code (usually using HTML or JavaScript) into a website’s code and that dangerous code executes when the user visits the site.

ANSWER 2
C) Theft at your hot site
Theft is the only choice which does not directly threaten the lives and safety of employees, customers, or visitors.

ANSWER 3
A) Systems still run default configurations
Default configurations should always be changed as they represent a major attack areas for host systems since default passwords and settings are often publicaly available and widely known. Input validation handling and error handling are application-based concewrns but this question asked about host-based vulnerabilities. Using weak keys can permit your encryption to be exploited but that is not a system host-based problem.

ANSWER 4
C) Running a port scan on the target
Port scans allow you to see what ports are open on a system and scanning a system without permission is considered direct engagement and can be viewed as an attack.  The other options are reconnaissance but they are considered passive reconaissance.

ANSWER 5
E) Persistence
Attacks that last for a long time are persistent. Escalation of privilege involves trying to gain more access to a system and possibly getting access to an account with admin or root privileges. An armored virus is a virus with code that makes it particularly difficult to detect and remove. Pivoting means the attacker is moving from system to system. Pivoting can be persistent but it doesn't have to be. Penetration testing is an authorized, simulated attack used to test the vulnerability of a system.
