I have earned both the CompTIA Security+ and CompTIA Cybersecurity Analyst (CySA+) certifications. I hope that sharing the tools and resources that I used will help you learn and get certified as well. 
Links are included in one section for your convenience at the bottom of this page.

LYNDA/LINKEDIN LEARNING
I first started at Lynda.com because I already had a subscription. Mike Chapple's prep course is logically broken down and follows the exam objectives nicely. He is a well-respected IT professional at Notre Dame, has worked extensively with various agencies, and holds numerous designations. Chapple's course on Lynda/LinkedIn Learning will give you a rock-solid foundation and if you want additional study tips and questions you can subscribe to his personal site (CertMike)for free. 

Courses from Lynda are also on LinkedIn Learning.* Both sites feature a month long free trial and it's easy to cancel if you don't want to continue with a paid subscription.

*Side Note: On April 9, 2015, LinkedIn Corp. announced its intention to buy lynda.com in a deal valued at $1.5 billion, which officially closed on May 14, 2015. The site re-branded to "Lynda.com® From LinkedIn". On June 13, 2016, Microsoft announced that it would acquire lynda.com's parent company LinkedIn for $26.2 billion.

COMPTIA CERTMASTER
CertMaster is a paid service that I personally found extremely useful. It has hundreds of questions that are written by the same people that write the actual CompTIA exams. I have seen some reviews online from people who may not have liked it but I learned quite a lot from it and being able to cycle through questions over and over reinforced my knowledge tremendously. CertMaster is available as a standalone purchase or as part of a package from the CompTIA store. 

GIBSON BOOK
The Kindle version of Darril Gibson's book, "CompTIA Security+ Get Certified Get Ahead: SY0–501 Study Guide," cost me less than $10. Not only does Gibson go into appropriate depth with explanations and examples, the book has two 75 question practice tests, and chapter quizzes.

PROFESSOR MESSER
No conversation about preparing for this exam would be complete without mentioning Professor Messer. He has free training videos on his site and on YouTube for not only the Security+ but also for the A+ and Network+. He goes into excellent detail while also keeping the subjects approachable and within bite-sized chunks which makes it extremely easy to learn at your own pace.

GOCERTIFY
GoCertify's site has quite a few 10 question sample tests for both the current exam version and the one that was just retired. Even though some of the old 401 version topics are not covered in the 501 I still found it beneficial to also take a peak at the 401 samples because there is still some overlap.

FLASHCARDS
In addition to watching videos and taking quizzes I made flashcards to help reinforce my learning. These really came in handy when keeping the specifics about types of cryptography separated. These also allowed me to study at traffic lights on my way to work or whenever I had a few spare minutes.

Important Note: Mike Chapple's class, Darril Gibson's book, and Professor Messer provide discount codes for a percentage off the CompTIA exam price. Be sure to see their links for more details.

From the first day of starting to learn to passing the exam it took me under two months. Of course the length of time may be different depending upon your background but I hope this guide and the resources listed below help you learn and become certified. Good luck and I wish you the best!
